README.md, before:

# pcap2har-go

## Overview

This is a program designed to take a packet capture and produce a HAR (json)
file summarising the http conversations contained within.  Browsers commonly
allow you to produce HAR files from their developer consoles so this should be
a fairly common format.

## Building

This program requires libpcap to build and run.  On Linux you typically install
a development version of the library like this on Debian and Ubuntu variants:

	sudo apt install libpcap-dev

On Windows download and install npcap from https://nmap.org/npcap/.  The
regular installer is sufficient, you shouldn't need the SDK.

On Mac's/BSD the library bindings required should be there out of the box
(no further action required).

Note that it's assumed you have Go installed, and also make (without make look
at the commands in the Makefile, that is mostly being used for convenience
rather than because things are particularly complex).

	git clone https://github.com/colinnewell/pcap2har-go.git
	cd pcap2har-go
	make
	sudo make install

## Using

	sudo tcpdump port 80 -w packets.dump
	pcap2har packets.dump > traffic.har

HAR files contain a lot of info you probably don't need.  I like to use tools
like jq to boil down the json into more concise info.  

For example:

	pcap2har packets.dump | jq '.log.entries[] | { url: .request.url, response: (if .response.content.mimeType == "application/json" then .response.content.text | fromjson else .response.content.text end), response_status: .response.status, query_string: .request.queryString }'

## Background

This is a quick stab at a replacement for pcap2har written in Go.

This is not complete, and is largely been driven by occasions where I
need to analyse packet captures.  If you want a more complete program
that does this look at https://github.com/andrewf/pcap2har.  That is a
python program using scapy that I have been using to do this before.

The idea is to detect all HTTP traffic in a packet capture and turn it
into a HAR file for simpler analysis.  Browsers commonly output har
files and it's a json is a convenient format to look through.

http://www.softwareishard.com/blog/har-12-spec/

Note that it's not going to do well with TLS traffic, so this won't be
much use for most traffic you do with the outside these days.  This is
often really handy for development however.  Especially with internal
web service development.

This is largely based off the example in the documentation:

https://godoc.org/github.com/google/gopacket/tcpassembly/tcpreader

## Bugs / limitations

It has various limitations.

* joining up 2 sides of the conversation seems flawed.
* http details may be obscured as the libraries I'm using automatically
  decode http features like chunked encoding.  This can be really 
  useful (not having to decode base64 content), or frustrating when
  those details are what would help you spot a problem.
* I haven't looked at how you'd decode TLS traffic.  Presumably I'd
  need to provide keys for that.
* Websockets aren't decoded.
* The time for the entry will be derived from the timing of the data packets,
  without taking into consideration the TCP handshake.  Time to process the
  request is from when the first data packet is sent until the last is
  received.
* Data not understood or missing is likely to be silently dropped with no
  indication that it was missed.
* FastCGI implementation is very simple and crude and complex.  It's a hack job
  of the existing go library fcgi code shoe horned into this code base in an
  ugly way and lightly tested.  It ought to be possible to expose more of the
  cool stuff from the fastcgi stream like errors.

I have replicated some of the existing tcp reader code to give access to the
timing information I have extracted.  It might be good to contribute this back
to the main library.

Large or sketchy packet captures may well cause problems.  The reader
doesn't really join up both sides of the conversation for me so I'm
using the address pair to link them up, but if you got a repeat, that
would go wrong.  Also I'm not really checking for dropped packets.  The
library I'm using is paying attention to things like that, so it might
be that all we do is not include those conversations in the output.

We're also loading all this data into memory before outputting it to
json.

In short, there's plenty more to do before this is complete, the code
is more a proof of concept at this point.  It is amazing how far you
can get so quickly with the existing Go libraries.

It's only been very lightly tested so far.  It really needs a lot of
work before it's production ready.

## Debugging

If you're having issues with the output in practice, and you want to grab the
data being processed to help create a test the simplest way is to patch the
code a little like this:

	diff --git internal/reader/reader.go internal/reader/reader.go
	index 6a22c3b..f311b1e 100644
	--- internal/reader/reader.go
	+++ internal/reader/reader.go
	@@ -2,6 +2,7 @@ package reader

	 import (
		"bufio"
	+	"bytes"
		"io"
		"io/ioutil"
		"log"
	@@ -51,8 +52,16 @@ type ReaderStream interface {

	 // ReadRequest tries to read tcp connections and extract HTTP conversations.
	 func (h *HTTPConversationReaders) ReadRequest(r ReaderStream, a, b gopacket.Flow) {
	+
		t := NewTimeCaptureReader(r)
	-	spr := NewSavePointReader(t)
	+
	+	var debug bytes.Buffer
	+	tee := io.TeeReader(t, &debug)
	+	defer func() {
	+		ioutil.WriteFile(b.String()+".test", debug.Bytes(), 0644)
	+	}()
	+
	+	spr := NewSavePointReader(tee)
		for {
			spr.SavePoint()
			buf := bufio.NewReader(spr)

Note that this patch may not apply cleanly, this is just an example of a quick
and simple way to generate files with the data being processed.

## Dependencies

This program uses go modules so dependencies can be updated in the usual way.

    go get -u ./...
    make test

    ...

    go mod tidy
    git add go.mod go.sum
    ...

Commit message:

the reasons for the fork: * move to gopacket/gopacket * shuffle that pcap-cli repo into this one and make it so pcap2har can be   called as a lib

README.md, after:

# pcap2har-go

## Fork
This is a fork of colinnewell/pcap2har-go to update goquery, and add his pcap-cli so we can alter this repo to be used
as a lib.

## Overview

This is a program designed to take a packet capture and produce a HAR (json)
file summarising the http conversations contained within.  Browsers commonly
allow you to produce HAR files from their developer consoles so this should be
a fairly common format.

## Building

This program requires libpcap to build and run.  On Linux you typically install
a development version of the library like this on Debian and Ubuntu variants:

	sudo apt install libpcap-dev

On Windows download and install npcap from https://nmap.org/npcap/.  The
regular installer is sufficient, you shouldn't need the SDK.

On Mac's/BSD the library bindings required should be there out of the box
(no further action required).

Note that it's assumed you have Go installed, and also make (without make look
at the commands in the Makefile, that is mostly being used for convenience
rather than because things are particularly complex).

	git clone https://github.com/jb0n/pcap2har-go.git
	cd pcap2har-go
	make
	sudo make install

## Using

	sudo tcpdump port 80 -w packets.dump
	pcap2har packets.dump > traffic.har

HAR files contain a lot of info you probably don't need.  I like to use tools
like jq to boil down the json into more concise info.  

For example:

	pcap2har packets.dump | jq '.log.entries[] | { url: .request.url, response: (if .response.content.mimeType == "application/json" then .response.content.text | fromjson else .response.content.text end), response_status: .response.status, query_string: .request.queryString }'

## Background

This is a quick stab at a replacement for pcap2har written in Go.

This is not complete, and is largely been driven by occasions where I
need to analyse packet captures.  If you want a more complete program
that does this look at https://github.com/andrewf/pcap2har.  That is a
python program using scapy that I have been using to do this before.

The idea is to detect all HTTP traffic in a packet capture and turn it
into a HAR file for simpler analysis.  Browsers commonly output har
files and it's a json is a convenient format to look through.

http://www.softwareishard.com/blog/har-12-spec/

Note that it's not going to do well with TLS traffic, so this won't be
much use for most traffic you do with the outside these days.  This is
often really handy for development however.  Especially with internal
web service development.

This is largely based off the example in the documentation:

https://godoc.org/github.com/google/gopacket/tcpassembly/tcpreader

## Bugs / limitations

It has various limitations.

* joining up 2 sides of the conversation seems flawed.
* http details may be obscured as the libraries I'm using automatically
  decode http features like chunked encoding.  This can be really 
  useful (not having to decode base64 content), or frustrating when
  those details are what would help you spot a problem.
* I haven't looked at how you'd decode TLS traffic.  Presumably I'd
  need to provide keys for that.
* Websockets aren't decoded.
* The time for the entry will be derived from the timing of the data packets,
  without taking into consideration the TCP handshake.  Time to process the
  request is from when the first data packet is sent until the last is
  received.
* Data not understood or missing is likely to be silently dropped with no
  indication that it was missed.
* FastCGI implementation is very simple and crude and complex.  It's a hack job
  of the existing go library fcgi code shoe horned into this code base in an
  ugly way and lightly tested.  It ought to be possible to expose more of the
  cool stuff from the fastcgi stream like errors.

I have replicated some of the existing tcp reader code to give access to the
timing information I have extracted.  It might be good to contribute this back
to the main library.

Large or sketchy packet captures may well cause problems.  The reader
doesn't really join up both sides of the conversation for me so I'm
using the address pair to link them up, but if you got a repeat, that
would go wrong.  Also I'm not really checking for dropped packets.  The
library I'm using is paying attention to things like that, so it might
be that all we do is not include those conversations in the output.

We're also loading all this data into memory before outputting it to
json.

In short, there's plenty more to do before this is complete, the code
is more a proof of concept at this point.  It is amazing how far you
can get so quickly with the existing Go libraries.

It's only been very lightly tested so far.  It really needs a lot of
work before it's production ready.

## Debugging

If you're having issues with the output in practice, and you want to grab the
data being processed to help create a test the simplest way is to patch the
code a little like this:

	diff --git internal/reader/reader.go internal/reader/reader.go
	index 6a22c3b..f311b1e 100644
	--- internal/reader/reader.go
	+++ internal/reader/reader.go
	@@ -2,6 +2,7 @@ package reader

	 import (
		"bufio"
	+	"bytes"
		"io"
		"io/ioutil"
		"log"
	@@ -51,8 +52,16 @@ type ReaderStream interface {

	 // ReadRequest tries to read tcp connections and extract HTTP conversations.
	 func (h *HTTPConversationReaders) ReadRequest(r ReaderStream, a, b gopacket.Flow) {
	+
		t := NewTimeCaptureReader(r)
	-	spr := NewSavePointReader(t)
	+
	+	var debug bytes.Buffer
	+	tee := io.TeeReader(t, &debug)
	+	defer func() {
	+		ioutil.WriteFile(b.String()+".test", debug.Bytes(), 0644)
	+	}()
	+
	+	spr := NewSavePointReader(tee)
		for {
			spr.SavePoint()
			buf := bufio.NewReader(spr)

Note that this patch may not apply cleanly, this is just an example of a quick
and simple way to generate files with the data being processed.

## Dependencies

This program uses go modules so dependencies can be updated in the usual way.

    go get -u ./...
    make test

    ...

    go mod tidy
    git add go.mod go.sum
    ...
